To put it very simply, a JavaScript engine is just a program that executes JavaScript code.
The engine, which is embedded in the browser, "reads", and in coding talk
we just use the word "parses" instead of "reads",
so the engine parses the JavaScript, the script.
It then converts or compiles the script to machine language, and then the machine code runs and it
runs pretty quick.
And the engine applies optimizations on every stage of the process.
It even watches the script as it runs, analyzes the data that flows through it and applies optimizations
to the machine's code based on that knowledge.
And at the end, scripts are quite fast, and you and I have the advantage of Google, Apple and various
others spending millions upon hundreds of millions of dollars developing really fast engines.
And as with most things in the programming community, there's not just one engine.
They are multiple engines out there and each engine, each JavaScript engine, implements a version of
ECMAScript.
And we already know that JavaScript implements that standard.
This means as ECMAScript evolves, so do the engines.
And the reason why they are so many different engines is that each one is designed to work with a different
browser, headless browser, run runtime like Node etc.
Whoa! I just said headless browser.
You probably familiar with a browser, but what's a headless browser?
Well, it's actually a browser without a graphic user interface.
They are useful for running automated tests against your web products.
And where does Node fit into all of this, into the different servers? Node is an asynchronous event
driven framework that allows you to use JavaScript on the server side.
And since they are JavaScript driven tools, they have to be powered by a JavaScript engine.
We know we've got different JavaScript engines.
The question we have is ... which one should we learn?
So here's a quick summary of what engines are used for JavaScript.
And as you can see, V8 is used for Node and Chrome, and because of that reason, I want us to quickly
expand a little on the V8 engine.